what is up everybody welcome to another
episode of AMA Alive I am your host tom
bill you and I'm gonna be answering your
questions and by the way people have
asked what AMA stands for and it stands
for ask me anything so dive in fire away
put your comments in with questions and
we will get to them alright the first
question up is from Ben wim boom this is
from Facebook hi Tom despite your strict
routine and bright lines is this
possible for you to occasionally lose
control over your day what are good
techniques for presenting preventing day
to day chaos from disrupting order
alright the very short answer is no I
don't lose control of my days I don't
let the day-to-day chaos get in my way
and the reality is that it comes down to
identity like right now this is day 5 of
a water only fast and I'm not talking
about a Ramadan style fast where you eat
at night I'm talking about round the
[__] clock I'm not eating anything
but water and salt that's it those are
the only things that I'm imbibing so
that already is a massive stressor and
as I'm sure you guys can hear in my
voice I'm getting sick or something and
I'm sleeping terribly coughing all night
absolute mayhem and yet nonetheless
I'm still getting everything done and by
the way I like to think right now you
guys can feel the energy that is because
at the end of the day my identity
demands that I not break fast until it's
time to break fast my identity demands
that I push and generate energy and get
to a point where I'm performing at the
highest level at all times regardless
that is a cultivated thing that has
everything to do with who I want to be
now at the end of the day the only thing
that really matters is what you think
about yourself when you're by yourself
in those quiet moments there is nobody
around to impress there's no posturing
to be done what do you think about
yourself once you realize the power of
feeling good about who you are in those
quiet moments you will do anything to
act in accordance with the person that
you need to become in order to feel good
in those moments and I know if I like
today I walked by a bag of
you're nuts and a voice in my head
screamed you could have some of those
macadamia nuts no one would ever know
and I had to laugh because I know I'm
never gonna give in to that I'm just not
it's again my identity is so strong and
I spent so much time and energy
cultivating it there's just no way
because I know what I lose which is I
wouldn't feel good about myself and I
was by myself
you guys might not realize there's any
difference but I would know today in the
shower Lisa and I were together and she
was like oh my god that's right I
totally forgot you were fasting because
I haven't been complaining about it
which normally I do in fairness I
haven't been complaining about this fast
I think I've gotten really good at
fasting at this point so I haven't been
complaining about it I haven't been
talking about it and she had completely
forgotten that I was fasting and I
thought here's another one of those
times she doesn't realize I'm fasting so
at the end of the day this is for me
it's not for anybody else
so not letting the chaos of the day take
you away comes down to you what do you
want to feel about yourself what are you
trying to accomplish that at the end of
the days was important now I want to
talk about something that's been on my
mind which is there's a very famous
phrase when the cat's away the mice will
play
and I remember I used to live in
accordance with that and win my bosses
were gone whoever that boss was and
there been times where my boss was
essentially my employees right nobody's
looking or my boss back in the day a
traditional boss and when they were gone
it was like hah I can relax let me tell
you right now if you have the instinct
to relax when the people that are
supposedly watching you are away you
don't have the intrinsic motivation that
you need in order to see something
through I so want to build this [__]
studio for my own reasons it's inside of
me nobody has to tell me and you don't
have to own a company to get that but
like Seth Godin says be a lynchpin you
don't have to be an entrepreneur but
everybody to really enjoy your life
there should be something that you want
so bad
that it's worth going after to me that's
that is fulfillment that there's
something that is hard it's hard to
obtain but you believe in it so much and
it gives you so much energy when you
pursue it that you're gonna go after no
matter what build that thing into your
life man like go experience enough stuff
so that you find that thing that's
interesting enough to you that you're
really gonna go in double down and get
great at that
that's why Seth Godin calls a lynchpin
an artist it's somebody who regardless
of whether or not the cat is there to
watch the mice the mice are being
diligent they're working hard because
they want to feel like an artist when
they're by themselves they want to know
that they're thinking of solutions
pushing themselves improving their
capabilities all of that for yourself
that's what it means to be an artist so
become an artist in your own life if you
want to really fall in love with it all
right next question from Robert Arroyo
Facebook how do you control your mind
and not allow people's opinions of you
to dictate your life alright this one is
really easy to explain and I get how
difficult it is to actually do as humans
we want to connect with other people we
want to be appreciated and liked that
that is universal but at the end of the
day you can't care more about what
people think of you than you think of
yourself and that needs to become the
mantra that you build into your life
in fact the theme of today's episode I'm
gonna say is taking control of your life
and these first two statements are all
about that are these first two questions
you can't control your own life you
can't control your own mind if you allow
yourself to care more about what other
people think of you than you think of
yourself so that needs to be the compass
by which you steer now that doesn't mean
that it isn't going to suck when people
disapprove of you they say they don't
like what you're doing man that's hard
I'm telling you right now that is still
hard for me and this is something that I
put a lot of energy into but at the end
of the day even when it stings even when
it hurts I know I need to be true to
myself I need to be true my vision I
need to be true to what gives me energy
what I'm trying to accomplish my goals
the things that I've really thought
about that I'm
they're a part of me they're a part of
my identity they are what I want to do
and become now if somebody's trying to
knock me off that path by criticizing me
even if it hurts I know what I'm trying
to accomplish in my life I know what I
want to feel about myself in my life and
I let that be the barometer by which I
judged the state of things I let that be
my true north by which I steer the more
I think about it the more I'm coming to
the realization that what you think
about yourself is the ultimate goal it's
the ultimate thing it's the ultimate
reward or punishment but what you think
about yourself is at the end of the day
the single most important thing and so
beginning to have a relationship with
yourself of sitting quietly and this may
be one of the reasons that meditating is
so important that you can actually sit
quietly think about who you are now what
you think about yourself who you want to
become what price you're willing to pay
to get there and then actually going
down that path to become that person
that at the end of the day is the thing
that is going to bring you happiness and
fulfillment but you really have to think
about who you want to become and to not
be trapped by your past but do that put
time and energy into thinking about what
do I want to think about myself and
quite honestly what do I think about
myself right now if you steer by that it
becomes very easy to ignore other people
next question is from Victor Marquez
this is on Facebook how do I continue to
push how do you continue to push perhaps
how do you continue to push of your
health no matter how much you try and
how strong your mind is continues to
stop yourself from progressing then you
need to address your body this is a
perfect question this is exactly what
Lisa is going through that woman is so
mentally tough it is terrifying
I actually worry sometimes she doesn't
know when to stop that's me saying that
so when I'm like whoa this person does
not know when to quit they don't know
when to relax and take a break you know
that they're hardcore
and my wife is uber hardcore and the
reality is that her body is simply not
as strong as her mind and so she needs
to take that powerful mind and aim it at
solving the problems of her body and
that is what you need to do you've got
some health issues something going on
that you need to address and to feel
weak because your body is weak is a
mistake you need to understand this is
addressable this is something that I can
fix and I'm gonna have to go out and
learn about it and to get your body
right is incredibly important the body
and the mind are all part of one
ecosystem so if your body is weak
however strong your mind is it is not
optimized and so focusing on your body
getting that in a good place is
absolutely critical and that by the way
is why we started the show health theory
if you guys aren't already on that tip
get on it hell theory is powerful it is
a must what day does it come out anybody
every other Thursday all right every
other Thursday and if you guys love it
and are engaging with it then we'll
start making it every Thursday but
getting your body and your mind in sync
optimized that that is the key so focus
on your body get it right all right next
up is coyote coyote profit that is
amazing I want to believe that's a real
name
coyote profit from Facebook hey Tom have
you ever thought of working with the
prison population or developing a
program for prisoners especially those
coming back into society I actually have
thought about this never very seriously
but I've always been captivated by the
Folsom Prison concert that Johnny Cash
did oh that was amazing I don't know how
useful I would be and I think that it
would be a lot of energy and that's the
only thing that's really stopped me and
you guys know I'm haunted by Geoffrey
Canada's words and he said you have to
give up on adults
forgiveme had to take a swill of
beverage there and that if you really
want to have long lasting impact to
focus on kids because you can hit them
at the age of imprinting so this is
something that that's really stuck with
me so I I am heartbroken for how bad
the system is I am heartbroken that
people they get sucked into that system
not only do they not seem rehabilitated
it seems to try to optimize them for
hardening up getting tougher they're
around other criminals in a criminally
minded place that spits you out where
you don't have a lot of opportunities so
man is it a system that hopefully
somebody will disrupt I just don't know
that my particular message is the
message is going to disrupt them but it
is something if I'm honest that I am
intrigued by and to see if I could
possibly have some impact there would be
interesting it's not my focus right now
but that would be interesting all right
Edmond Dantes YouTube hi Thomas I'm
getting older I realized just how much
time I've wasted in the wrong mindset
how do i reconcile that and use it to my
advantage without allowing it to bury me
and guilt Thanks okay
the very simple answer is if you're
gonna do everything based on your goals
okay my goal is to achieve this awesome
then ask does burying myself in guilt
help me get there yes or no if it does
bury yourself
my experience is that it absolutely does
not that while 20% of your time can go
to that to be like I'm never [__]
going back there again I'm never gonna
make that mistake again and thusly I am
so open-minded to new ideas I'm not
gonna become dogmatic even about what I
think is my growth mindset I'm gonna be
open whatever moves me forward I'm going
to do let me tell you if somebody
convinced me tomorrow that a growth
mindset is [__] I'll switch and I
will have no problem coming here looking
dead in the eye of everyone out there in
the audience land and saying I was wrong
I'll tell you right now the books so
good they can't ignore you by Cal
Newport changed my entire rhetoric and
just belief system around passion 100%
and the next day boom here it is oh my
god this guy's enlightened me like never
ever become dogmatic because that's what
serves your goal so if you know that
that's what serves your goal don't allow
yourself to bury yourself in guilt it
doesn't make sense so that is that's
such a relief for me when I realized
that something doesn't make sense
beating myself up over something that I
did or didn't do in the past it doesn't
make sense
beyond the 20% and the 20% is really
just that nudge that you need in the
ribs to stay focused to get going it
isn't about beating yourself up it's
about making sure that you're still
motivated to keep pushing and moving
forward that's it all right Greg
Kobe Facebook thanks Tom for all of the
amazing content how do you figure out
what goals are worth pursuing where do
you begin if you're trying to figure out
your why ok so this really comes down to
understanding what is giving you energy
more energy than it takes it's not gonna
be the same for everybody it comes down
to resonance what resonates with you so
you need to experience a lot of things
this is why I think Kevin Kelly's notion
of don't prematurely optimize burn that
into your psyche don't prematurely
optimize go out experience a lot of
stuff fumble around waste time get lost
backpack don't worry about making money
just experience experience experience
and in that you will find something that
piques your interest you find that it
captures your imagination that you're
intrigued to dive into a deeper then do
that dive into a deeper explore it more
fully fully see if it's becoming a
fascination if it's becoming a
fascination then you can really go down
the process of turning it into a passion
but that requires again to our boy Cal
Newport that requires that you go down
the path of actually gaining mastery I
think passion is like love there's I
don't think you're truly in love if it's
one-sided love is about this give and
take it's in exchange the same is true
of passion unless you're actively
gaining mastery unless you're getting
good at that and able to put that to use
in the real world and you see by gaining
these skills I'm able to actually
manifest my will in the real world in a
way that helps other people that's when
it becomes a passion so focus on that so
I think that you need to do that
experience a lot
things and then when something really
piques your interest you go down that
path but don't prematurely optimize
alright people are wishing me birthday
wishes which I've tried to like be uber
low-key about so how do people even
notice my birthday I have killed every
single piece of content that says it's
my birthday
interesting I've even lied about my
birthday on Facebook thank you that's
incredibly kind and generous I don't
take it for granted thank you thank you
thank you very very generous next
question is from Kevin Nilo this is
Facebook hey Tom what's your best advice
for someone just graduating from college
with no sense of direction and no job go
get lost go explore go do things that
interest you dive deep don't prematurely
optimize so this is something that I
think is missing in people's lives today
if you don't know what you want to
pursue then don't start pursuing
something with all your might it is very
okay to be dirt poor it is very okay to
be broke
like in that early period of your life
your early 20s man it is so okay to not
be making a lot of money as long as
you're able to eat and you would be
startled by how little money that takes
it's okay go out discover play bumble
around do whatever it takes to begin to
discover the things that really give you
energy that will serve you incredibly
well because feeling alive that's the
name of the game
all right Adrian Garcia YouTube Tom
pleasure meeting you know WonderCon my
man amazing you have all the love from
my heart right now thank you for coming
by my question is excuse me how do you
start the process of changing a culture
in the workplace when do you decide
whether to cut people if they don't fit
the culture man now you're asking the
hard questions here so the reality is
that this is something that I'm still
exploring I'm gonna give you my logic
but I think Ray Dalio is the man to
listen to here I think he just in his
book principles lays out all the nuance
of how you do this
the reality is number one you have got
to have people that are so obsessed with
finding out the truth for their own
reasons by the way that they want to
live in a world where they're able to
improve themselves and becoming able to
improve yourself has everything to do
with identifying the truth of where you
are what are you good at what are you
not good at that's really really
critical so you need to be everyone in
the organization needs to be willing to
say the truth and they need to be
willing to hear the truth
oftentimes people are willing to say and
they're not willing to hear or and I
actually find this is super common
they're willing to hear the truth but
they're not willing to say it which
oddly enough may actually be more
typical than the reverse people have a
really hard time saying something that
they are they worried will hurt somebody
else's feelings that has certainly been
my struggle I am way more ready to hear
the truth about myself than I am to like
say the hard things other people that's
so uncomfortable but that's what you
have to demand in your organization now
the easy one for me to know when to let
somebody go is do they make the place
better or worse if they make the place
worse if they're toxic if they're
gossipy if they're just pissing and
moaning which this is another thing from
principals this is so [__] important
if you have a critical thought even if
you don't say it you must verbalize and
tell people that critical thought
otherwise that stuff turns toxic so if
somebody is toxic if they're making this
a worse place to be then they gotta go
that's the simplest way now I will just
again encourage you to go read Ray Dalio
brilliant book principles which is for
sure the single most powerful business
book I have ever read in my life
read it alright next question from
crafty B YouTube hi Tom you always say
that you punish yourself if you don't
follow through on something how exactly
do you punish yourself and for how long
I find they can't stop for days so I
definitely would not punish myself for
days that is again going back to what
your gold is punishing yourself for days
move you towards that or move you away
from it chances are it moves you away
from it I only allocate about 20% of my
time to anything negative let alone
punishment but it's not even always
punishment it's thinking negative
thoughts thinking about the people that
hate me or want me to fail whatever I
never spent more than 20% of the time in
that darkness
so my punishments are very acute very
short-lived but it comes down to
honestly
I built my identity and my expectations
for myself so acutely they're so clear
crystal clear in my mind like the other
day and in fact part of punishing myself
is admitting this to you guys it was
like I don't know day 3 or day 4 the
fast I was just [__] tired man I just
felt so uh netic with my alarm went off
I'd been coughing all night it was just
lame and I didn't get out of bed in ten
minutes or less which is like a hard and
fast line that I hold myself to and so I
was disappointed and I was like medicine
[__] like you're accepting excuses
and I because I wasn't living up to who
I say I am and who I want to be it felt
bad and that is the punishment like it's
just my identity is so clear to me and
the way they don't want to feel about
myself when I'm by myself is so clear
that when I don't when I miss that mark
and I don't get to feel good about
myself it's it's an opportunity cost
it's that like man I could have felt
really good in this moment but instead I
feel bad like that's it it's not I don't
you know grab a whip and
self-flagellating myself or anything
like that it's just I know that I'm
disappointing myself I know that I
didn't do what I said I was gonna do I
know that that however mild it is has a
knock-on effect to the team and I'm not
gonna be able to accomplish as much as I
want I know then that when I go push the
team that I'm gonna feel a little bit
conflicted about that because I said I
would get up in ten minutes or less and
I didn't so it's like it all has to mean
something to you once it means something
to you once you've baked it into your
identity once you really live by that
[__] once it's all a part of how you
think about yourself then all of a
sudden the punishment happens by itself
and I just don't try to stop it I don't
try to hide from it I don't try to run
from it I accept I said I was gonna do
it I didn't do it that sucks bad on me I
do not look well on that and
own life and so yeah it doesn't feel
good and that's it that's the punishment
that I do all right not of not of
Michael forgive I'm butchering that one
my apologies this is from Facebook Tom
how did you develop cutthroat awareness
without lying to yourself about what you
need to do this one is very easy to
answer I introduced the word yet I
introduced the word yet so when you
realize that you're not good at this and
you add the word yet I'm not good at
this yet suddenly it frees you up I
could get good at this if I wanted to my
identity is not tied around Who I am
it's tied around who I'm willing to
become in the price I'm willing to pay
to get there it's not around being right
being good being worthy it's around
being willing to admit that I'm not yet
the person that I need to be it's being
willing to stare at my inadequacies it's
that it's priding myself on identifying
the right answer instead of trying to be
right those are the things that if you
make those changes in your life it
becomes very easy to be honest with
yourself because being honest with
yourself when you realize that you're
wrong it becomes an opportunity to be
right so at the end of the day it's all
driven by that goal I want to get there
but I can't get there if I'm lying to
myself I'm blind if I don't know what's
wrong so when you really want that goal
and you insert the word yet all of a
sudden it becomes very easy to be very
very honest all right next question is
from Pranjal raman this is on facebook
how receptive should I be to the
opinions of others of me when I firmly
believe I'm doing the right thing for
myself so I think it is always good to
scan the opinions of other people even
when they are hostile even even when
they are overtly meant as an attack to
really look at that and say is there any
truth in this here's a great news when
people attack you they almost always go
for something real it is very rare that
somebody tries to attack you for
something that isn't real so really look
at that thing
and figure out okay is there some truth
in here is there something that I can
address because if they're hitting you
with something that's true and that if
you fixed that you'd be in a more
powerful position than is very wise to
listen to the opinions of other people
having said that you need to think more
about yourself and you need to trust
your vision more than you worry about
what other people think it's gonna sting
when people don't like what you're doing
or don't believe in you or whatever but
at the end of the day if you look at it
and there's truth take the truth make an
adjustment don't worry about anything
else it's just that's gonna make you
more powerful if there's no truth in it
and it stings then just let it go and
focus on what it is you're trying to
accomplish but at the end of the day
this is all being driven by the goal so
if something they say can help you get
the goal you're gonna take it if
something they say hurts but can't help
you reach your goal you're going to
ignore it it's that simple
next question is from Ludovic Adam what
are three simple good habits you have
that help you take control number one
diet and exercise I cannot stress that
enough man
you've got to optimize your mind because
when your mind is suboptimal you're just
gonna be all over the place
next sleep when you're fatigued like
again you're gonna be all over the place
you're just gonna have a really hard
time getting control of your emotions
and then number three learning about the
brain really understanding the way that
it works understanding that your brain
is basically three separate layers
you've got the what they call the lizard
brain which is the oldest brain on top
of that you have the mammalian brain
which is in charge of your emotions and
on top of that you have the neocortex
the thing that makes you uniquely human
which is the ability to control your
impulses so literally the neocortex and
understanding how it interacts with
emotions and the lizard brain the the
fight flight freeze response that like
tactically is the most important thing
that you need to do for me being able to
envision that understanding what that
process is knowing what's going on neuro
chemically that's one of the things
that's really helped me get control of
my mind I could go on and on
having good habits bright lines
those things are incredibly important
but those three things I think are so
rudimentary and fundamental and I think
people overlook them especially the
first two people really really
undervalue the need for diet and
exercise to be totally on point and then
in this like hustler mentality world
people don't think you need sleep and I
just call total [__] on that I
prioritize sleep there was a time in my
life where I was getting six hours sleep
naturally and it was awesome and I was
just waking up and then literally
overnight I switched to getting like
eight hours sleep I have no idea why
what changed but I didn't try to stop it
I didn't set an alarm I didn't do
anything to mess up my sleep if I need
eight hours I'm gonna get eight hours
simple-ass so do those three things and
I think that you will be in a great
position to take control Edythe mustafa
youtube hi Tom how do I stay optimistic
after constant failures for the past
five years ever since I came to a new
country it's been failure after failure
for the first time I'm starting to doubt
myself
alright so failure is simply an
information rich data stream once you
understand that it is information rich
the whole point of a failure is what
information am I getting out of this
once you understand that it's meant for
you to be taking out the information and
getting better and holding yourself to a
standard of learning growing doing
discipline practice actually improving
then hopefully no matter how many
failures you've had you realize each
failure is making me a little better a
little better a little better a little
better and you just need to figure out
where do I think that breaking point is
so what is it that I'm trying to do how
long do I think it's gonna take me to a
massive skill set that I need to get
there all of that is absolutely critical
remember this [__] takes a lot of time
even when you're going all-out it's
gonna take a long time so don't start
panicking five years in is nothing at
the five-year mark of my entrepreneurial
journey I was still an absolute [__] I
knew nothing so knowing that even going
all out even with an F patience
mentality it is still going to take a
lot of time you always have to be
playing the long game so the only reason
I would doubt yourself is if you don't
think that you're taking the time to
and if you're not taking the time to
learn I would say immediately
immediately switch up your pitch stop
every time a failure happens really
break down what happened what went wrong
remembering that it's all your fault and
figure out what you could have done
differently so that you do it
differently next time and have a higher
chance of being successful all right
next question is from Robbie gutless I'm
guessing that's not a real name and
everybody knows my rant on be careful
what screen names you choose because
reinforcing gutless Ness and your mind
is not great by my estimation all right
hello again Tom how do you become and
remain humble more specifically how do
you not let your ego get in the way and
self-sabotage all right man maybe it is
just me but I've failed so many times in
my life that staying humble just is not
difficult so that's just like my default
setting I've just [__] up too much so
I don't have any grandiose visions of
myself now every now and then I'll be
crushing it really [__] hard and I
think oh my god
like I am so good at this and in those
moments I built in a mechanism where I'm
like okay this is awesome feel that
really embody that confidence this is
amazing this is gonna serve you well
then on the other hand make sure you
really look at what if secretly you're
actually an idiot and you're really
doing this wrong remember to me being an
idiot being stupid none of that is like
some permanent state about Who I am it
just means that I don't have information
that I need I haven't learned something
that I need to learn so like I'm loving
the confidence I'm feeling that's
amazing but now I need to also check
myself and like ooh what what if
everything that I'm thinking is wrong
like what if there's just a massive
dollop of luck in this and really
checking yourself against that I think
is incredibly powerful as a mechanism
now remember I just don't need that to
stay humble because in any given day I
have so many little failures that it's
like man like I just get it like the
human animal is not that impressive
so you're gonna [__] up and you're gonna
make mistakes and you are prone to
biases and all of that stuff so yeah
just I don't know it's so self-evident
to me to not get too full of myself and
the dangers that lie therein and
here's a big part of it like connecting
with other people and really
understanding not only my humanity but
their humanity and that nobody's perfect
that's like that's a beautiful thing to
me and I love that and I don't want to
feel separate from other people and so
feeling like oh I'm this you know super
cool guy that's like achieved all this
stuff like if that made me feel separate
from other people I wouldn't jive on
that so it just makes me feel
disconnected also it gives me anxiety
because I know that around the next
corner
I'm gonna make some big catastrophic
mistake that's just my life has shown me
that over and over and over so since I
know some huge embarrassing mistake is
coming my way being connected with
people being authentic being real being
vulnerable it's just way better for my
anxiety levels that's it
Anna Cecilia Facebook Tom I have a hard
time overcoming fear fear of failure and
not being able to get and accomplish my
goals
how do I conquer fear what helps you
move through it and not get stuck
because of it I know that the struggle
is guaranteed and success is not since I
know that to be true I really focus on
making sure that the process is
thoroughly enjoyable that I'm loving
what I'm doing on a day to day basis
that I'm loving the people that I'm
around that I love what I'm striving
towards but that my happiness my
fulfillment my joy my energy is not in
any way shape or form tied to actually
crossing the goal it's tied to sincerely
pursuing it now that's the key it's not
about faking I'm [__] here to build
this studio let me tell you right now
with every ounce of my being I poured my
soul into achieving that goal I'm going
all out to make that a reality at the
same time I know that I may never
achieve it and that's fine but I'm
sincerely chasing it and I'm really
enjoying the process and at the end of
the day those are the two things that
matter Louie
Christine this is YouTube hey Tom how do
you make sure
retain the books that you write sorry
about that
how do you make sure that you've
retained the books you read I've been
doing a 52 books for 2018 challenge and
I'm still on track which makes me proud
but I'm afraid I don't retain everything
all right so first and foremost you're
not gonna retain everything so don't
even worry about that but if you're
taking notes if you're really stopping
to think about the things that are
powerful in that book and then the most
important part you put them to immediate
use in your life you'll be startled by
how much you retain out of that but
don't make your goal
getting to the 52 books in 2018 make
your goal to learn as much as you can
from those books while reading as many
as you can and still getting the nuggets
out of it that are going to empower you
but often times I may only take two or
three things away from a book that
really stick with me at least with my
mind that's just the way it goes and I
take copious notes so but that's just
the way that it goes oftentimes I'll
encounter those same ideas from other
people and that helps more things
accumulate accumulate over time but
that's why I like for instance I I'm
pretty much always reading a book on
mindset of some kind so that I've got it
like from a thousand different angles so
if I'm only taking two or three things
like permanently away from any one book
those things begin to compound and over
time over years over decades all of a
sudden you've got a whole lot of
information and remember I'm trying to
put those things to immediate use if I
read something at 9:00 a.m. by 9:30 I'm
trying to use it in some way so use it
use it use it that's really the key sym
land what is up dude Facebook how are
you going to break your five-day fast
just had my own five-day one a few days
ago well congratulations to making it to
the end of your fast and I'm gonna be
doing my favorite meal which is protein
nachos so I take quest protein chips
look yes it's my company but that's
actually what I eat so this is not just
a shameless plug but I'm gonna take
quest protein chips and on top of that
I'd get Domino's pizza but I scrape the
toppings off so I don't eat any of the
any of the crust so and I take that and
then and I should say my wife takes that
she does this all for me she is amazing
and she spreads out the chips spreads
out the toppings from the pizza which is
a pepperoni and black olive pizza so
it's cheese pepperoni black olives and
she puts that on top then she sprinkles
more cheese especially so it all sticks
together and then so that it gets crispy
the edges which is so delicious and then
I use those as dipping mechanisms for
guacamole and it is so good and I'm a
little traumatized as you're asking that
now because I'm hours away from breaking
that fast and that is making me really
hungry but that is how I will break that
fast I'm super excited about that I
don't cheat so I'm not gonna you know
break oh actually I am gonna cheat
because it's my birthday as you guys
know and not today but tomorrow I'm
going to see ready player one and so
that's gonna be a lot of fun and because
I'm doing that I'm gonna have popcorn so
that will be my one cheap that it's not
how I'm gonna break my fast which today
I'm gonna break with the protein nachos
alright so funny now my stomach is like
grumbling all right Sam Montoya q
YouTube hey Tom what would you say is
your biggest gap in your life right now
and how are you working on filling that
gap dude I have no [__] idea how to
build the studio that is the truth right
I am figuring this out as I go I have a
very strong vision for I think it's
going to work but every time I encounter
something I realize oh actually I was
thinking wrong about that oh I need to
adjust here so that is really the thing
and I think building my network is gonna
be super super critical and man it's so
powerful the number of people that have
begun introducing me to other people
like in comics I just started telling
everybody step one of building the
studio's building comics people have
come out of the woodwork they're so
generous to tell me like these are the
people that you need to talk to you
people that have now consulted for me
Jim Krueger who's an Eisner
award-winning writer
thank you to Oliver who introduced me
he's now come on board he's now
introducing us other writers and artists
it's so [__] incredible so anyway
that's my biggest gap I'm filling it by
a telling everybody what I'm up to I
find that
they're super weird about this but you
want to tell everybody what you're up to
that way they know in case they have
some connection that you need they could
put you in contact with that help you
out building out my network super super
important and being so open to being so
wrong knowing that hey I've got this
vision I think it's gonna work I'm
feeling really good about it
but if it's not I'm changing in a
heartbeat I'm taking people's
information advice I'm learning from the
people that I go pitch and I think this
is a no-brainer this is a no-brainer but
then figuring out why they said no like
for instance I went to Warner Brothers
DC and I said hey let me have the rights
to the Matrix comic book and I'm gonna
revitalize the franchise it's gonna be
amazing which by the way tomorrow is the
anniversary of the release of The Matrix
we're doing a big matrix party here
today I'm very excited and I hope to
make this a bigger and bigger deal every
year annually March 31st came out in
1999 one day my hope is to be doing red
carpet events screening at movie
theaters but for today much smaller than
that but I wanted to get a hold of the
rights to that so I could revitalize the
franchise in comics and then my hope was
that they would see how well I was doing
in the comics and then they would let me
be involved in the rebooting the film
franchise they said no and the reason
they said no was we're damned if we do
damned if we don't so if we give you the
the rights and you smash it everyone's
gonna think we're idiots because we
needed an outsider to come in and reboot
the franchise and if you fail then were
the idiots they gave it to an outsider
who couldn't have possibly hoped to
reboot the franchise so I was like yeah
I actually get that so understanding
where people are motivated that's really
critical and understanding that their
biggest motivation isn't necessarily
rebooting or not rebooting the franchise
their big motivator is pleasing
shareholders and so you really have to
understand all of that stuff and that
that was something that you just learned
by doing it so that's the other thing
I'm just getting out there and doing it
so having the booth at WonderCon was
wildly instructive and by the way if any
of you out there especially if you're on
Instagram if you are a [__]
world-class artist DM me let me know
what you're up to I want to see your
artwork people have started now pain
me that have [__] world-class art
it's amazing so yeah hit you boy up on
this scram
alright guys five minute warning got
time for a couple more sterling stein
Facebook hi Tom how do you feel worthy
of asking for a mentor how do you get
over feeling like you aren't an asset to
them can ask them for help and they
won't see you as some selfish kid who
wants to drain them of the resources so
one you need to be a value to them or
don't go ask and I wouldn't go ask if I
didn't think that I could lend anything
so the thing that I had in the beginning
was I was just willing to work in
humanly smart now the bad news is I
didn't have this information
I was so fixed mindset it I didn't go
and do this but this would be my advice
to you if what you have is the ability
to work really hard which by the way
most people don't they think they do and
then they get around me and they wilt
like [__] flowers so I'm saying if
you for real have a work ethic that is
second to none that you were a die-hard
[__] and you are prepared to go
all-in and do whatever they ask without
bitching if it's take-out-the-trash
obviously within your code of ethics if
you're working with a psychopath but I'm
saying if they want you to make them tea
coffee taking out the trash that you're
gonna anticipate you're gonna figure out
what they need and that you're gonna go
hard never complain I always a bundle of
energy like people want to be around
people like that so if that's what you
have to offer go offer that be honest
with what you have to offer if that's
all you've got then offer that and
they'll put you hopefully in a position
that makes sense but do that and by the
way don't show up their [__] house
people have done that to me it's super
[__] creepy don't do it hit them up
if they ignore you so be it move on to
the next person but don't show up at
their [__] house you're really weird
their wife out let me start with that
so yeah that's how you do it all right
Cassandra Reece and this is gonna be the
last one how do I learn to complete
something I start I'm not sure if it's
because I feel it's not for me so I quit
but even so I feel guilty for not
completing that task alright so you need
to understand the difference between a
goal and a path so the goal is like this
is my mission in life this is what I
care about this is what I'm moving
towards this is my everything it gives
me more energy than it takes it is the
most beautiful thing I can think of when
I
about accomplishing that I'm filled with
radiant energy and I want to do that
thing a path on the other hand is like
for me building a studio building a
studio is a path to pulling people out
of the matrix if I realize that it
doesn't actually work then I'm gonna
stop doing it so I will quit a path in a
heartbeat but my mission my goal is
something so intrinsic to me something
so fundamentally exciting and thrilling
that you couldn't stop me from doing
that if you wanted to so the key is to
build that thing into your life to
create something in your life that is
that exciting for you that goes back to
one of the earlier questions it's all
around how do you create a passion in
your life has to do with experiencing a
whole lot of things not prematurely
optimizing experience experience
experience finding something that
captures your imagination going hard on
that thing seeing if it turns into a
real fascination if it does then you go
down the path of gaining mastery in it
but never confuse your path with your
goal if you're ditching paths so be it
also I would recommend read the book
grit by Angela Duckworth she talks about
how some people just they fall in love
with that beginning part of the process
and they just don't have the grit to see
it through and that is really hard to
differentiate between am I just not
being gritty and I just like to start
something for a week or a couple months
and then I'm on to the next thing or is
it that I really just haven't found the
right thing if you're bouncing from
thing to thing to thing without seeing
them through chances are you just
haven't developed grit yet so read that
book by Angela Duckworth alright guys
thank you so much for joining me thank
you all for the birthday wish is
incredibly kind incredibly generous that
means a lot to me and hopefully some of
you will join me in the celebration
technically tomorrow is the matrix's
birthday which is March 31st 1999 but
we're gonna be rocking it hard today I
hope that you guys will enjoy it I think
it's a perfect metaphor for human
existence alright I'm not wearing one of
my own shirts today but I would like to
remind you guys that you can go to shop
that impact Theory comm right now and
pick up some of our merchandise which is
powerful self signaling go they're
inundated with purchases that would be
amazing
that's one way to support the show and
everything that we're doing alright guys
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe
over here on Facebook not sure where or
on YouTube not sure where it is if
you're on Facebook and until next time
my friends be legendary
peace out
[Music]
[Applause]
you